---
layout: default
title: automatic war poetry
---

**{{ page.title }}**

2018\
_twitter-bot (no longer active)_\
[project on github](https://github.com/netkachevhum/homework/tree/new_branch/final%20project%202018%20twitter%20bot)·[full documentation on post(non)fiction (in Russian)](https://postnonfiction.org/projects/armylyr/)

This twitter bot was launched in 2018. It generated 3-line poems about war in Russian. I trained a Markov chain algorithm on a small corpus of diverse writings on war and state violence: Russian translation of Homer’s Iliada, Alexander Etkind’s book on soviet intellectuals imprisoned in GULAG (Warped Mourning), Varlam Shalamov’s Kolyma Tales (a collection of short stories about labour camp life in 1930s). The bot also was monitoring the twitter feed, collecting all the Russian tweets discussing current world conflicts — mainly the conflict between pro-Russian separatists in Donbas and Ukrainian army. So the poems mixed together various ways of speaking about war — and various affects induced by war. Those texts — although generated by a simple algorithm — speculated on the extreme violence of war and the traumas induced by it. Their collage, cut-up esthetics attempted to deconstruct the very language that made the war possible — the very dehumanizing language that legitimated state violence in USSR and current Russia. 

Some of the poems are provided below; I used Google Translate to translated them to English. 

\*\*\*\
socialism is a crime and it’s nice\
socialism is a crime and it’s nice\
crap war war

\*\*\*\
once again the dead lost it all\
once again the dead lost it all\
— — —

\*\*\*\
Anisimov spoke about the Holocaust\
it will only be the milk of the most just mortals\
— — — —

\*\*\*\
I obediently sank above the negative present\
this one spread out behind him - such cases of disobedience\
— —

\*\*\*\
what else but the dirty hair\
what else but the dirty hair\
be — — — 

\*\*\*\
for real native life of the Russian people\
they pushed us where we were in Russia long before 1989\
to kill — —